{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang16393{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 @Malgun Gothic;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 @Malgun Gothic;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 @Arial Unicode MS;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f5\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Segoe UI;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Roboto;}{\f7\fnil\fcharset2 Wingdings;}{\f8\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f9\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;\red247\green150\blue70;\red77\green81\blue86;\red255\green255\blue255;\red95\green99\blue104;\red32\green33\blue36;\red4\green12\blue40;\red223\green206\blue4;\red128\green158\blue194;\red143\green176\blue140;\red55\green65\blue81;\red247\green247\blue248;\red243\green164\blue71;\red0\green77\blue187;\red255\green192\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red75\green172\blue198;\red192\green80\blue77;\red155\green187\blue89;\red221\green132\blue132;\red33\green33\blue33;\red17\green17\blue17;\red100\green107\blue134;\red165\green181\blue146;\red158\green124\blue124;\red156\green133\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;\red165\green165\blue165;\red209\green144\blue73;\red155\green0\blue211;\red0\green176\blue80;\red209\green99\blue73;}
{\*\listtable 
{\list\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelstartat1{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\jclisttab\tx360}
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelstartat1{\leveltext\'01\'B7;}{\levelnumbers;}\f9\jclisttab\tx360}\listid1 }}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\b\f0\fs40\lang9 Module 1 [Hardware and its components]\i Topic: The Visible Computer\cf0\fs28\par
\cf2\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\cf0\fs28\par
1. What is hardware?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\highlight4\f2\fs24\lang1033 A\~\cf5 computer's hardware consists of its physical parts, including its internal pieces and connected external devices\cf3 .\cf0\highlight0\f3\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs28 2. What is the purpose of Hardware? \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl-341\slmult0\tx1749\cf6\highlight4\f2\fs24\lang1033 Hardware refers to the external and internal devices and equipment that\~\cf7\highlight0 enable you to perform major functions such as input, output, storage, communication, processing, and more\cf6\highlight4 .\cf0\highlight0\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf8\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\cf0\fs28\par
1. list out two types of hardware.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf6\highlight4\f2\fs24\lang1033 A core is\~\cf7\highlight0 a small CPU or processor built into a big CPU or CPU socket\cf6\highlight4 . It can independently perform or process all computational tasks. From this perspective, we can consider a core to be a smaller CPU or a smaller processor (see Figure 11.15) within a big processor\cf0\highlight0\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf9\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Advance\par
\cf0\fs28 1. What is core hardware\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf6\highlight4\i0\f2\fs24\lang1033\~A core is\~\cf7\highlight0 a small CPU or processor built into a big CPU or CPU socket\cf6\highlight4 . It can independently perform or process all computational tasks. From this perspective, we can consider a core to be a smaller CPU or a smaller processor (see Figure 11.15) within a big processor\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Do a practical of identifying hardware\b0\i0\f4\lang1033   \b CPU\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl-341\slmult0\tx1749     GPU\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Memory Components:\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}    RAM  Storage Components:\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab} HDD or SSD\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Motherboard Component:\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Motherboard\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Power Component:\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}PSU\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Input Devices:\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Keyboard\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}  Mouse \par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Output Devices\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Monitor\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Printer \b\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf8\fs40 Hardware Networking\cf0\fs28\par
\cf1\fs40 Topic: Category of components\cf0\fs28\par
\cf10\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\cf0\fs28\par
1. What are the category of components in hardware?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl-339\slmult0\tx1749\f4\fs24\lang1033 What\expndtw-8  \expndtw0 are the\expndtw-6  \expndtw0 category\expndtw-6  \expndtw0 of\expndtw-2  \expndtw0 components\expndtw-1  \expndtw0 in\expndtw-3  \expndtw0 hardware?\cf6\highlight4\f2 There are five main hardware components in a computer system:\~\cf7\highlight0 Input, Processing, Storage, Output and Communication devices\cf6\highlight4 .\cf0\highlight0\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Why category is needed?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\f5\fs24\lang1033 Categories provide a systematic way to organize and structure large amounts of information. By grouping similar items or concepts together within a category, it becomes easier to navigate and understand the information.\cf0\highlight0\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf13\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\cf0\fs28\par
1. Do a practical to identify the components in which category they come.\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f4 1.\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl-340\slmult0\b0\i0\f4\lang1033       \b\i\fs24   Processing Components:\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f4\u10625?\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\ilvl1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\sl-340\slmult0 CPU\par
{\listtext\f4 1\tab}GPU\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f4 2.\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl-340\slmult0 Memory Components:\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f4\u10625?\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\ilvl1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\sl-340\slmult0 RAM\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f4 3.\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl-340\slmult0 Storage Components:\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f4\u10625?\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\ilvl1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\sl-340\slmult0 HDD or SSD\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f4 4.\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl-340\slmult0 Motherboard Components:\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f4\u10625?\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\ilvl1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\sl-340\slmult0 Motherboard\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f4 5.\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl-340\slmult0 Power Components:\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f4\u10625?\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\ilvl1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\sl-340\slmult0 PSU\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f4 6.\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl-340\slmult0 Input Components:\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f4\u10625?\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\ilvl1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\sl-340\slmult0 Input Devices (keyboard, mouse, etc.)\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f4 7.\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl-340\slmult0 Output Components:\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f4\u10625?\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\ilvl1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\sl-340\slmult0 Output Devices (monitor, printer, etc.)\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f4 8.\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl-340\slmult0 Networking Components:\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f4\u10625?\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\ilvl1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\sl-340\slmult0 NIC\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f4 9.\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl-340\slmult0 Multimedia Components:\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f4\u10625?\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\ilvl1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\sl-340\slmult0 Sound Card\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f4 10.\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl-340\slmult0 Optical Components:\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f4\u10625?\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\ilvl1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\sl-340\slmult0 Optical Drive (CD/DVD drive)\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f4 11.\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl-340\slmult0 Cooling Components:\par

\pard 
{\listtext\f0\u10625?\tab}\jclisttab\tx360\ls1\ilvl1\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1440\sl-340\slmult0 Cooling System (fans, heat sinks, etc.)\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf14\fs40 Topic: Input Device\cf0\fs28\par
\cf15\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\cf0\fs28\par
1. What is input device?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 An input device is a hardware component or peripheral device that allows users to enter data or instructions into a computer or other digital device. It enables communication between the user and the computer system by accepting input from the user and sending it to the computer for processing.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 2. Why input device needed?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1077\sl-341\slmult0\tx1797\cf11\highlight12\b0\i0\f5\fs22\lang1033 I\b\fs24 nput devices allow users to enter data, commands, and instructions into a computer system. Users can input text, numbers, symbols, and other types of information using input devices such as keyboards, touchscreens, and mice. This input is essential for performing tasks, executing commands, and interacting with software applications.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf8\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\cf0\fs28\par
1. List out the input device.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li1796\sl-337\slmult0\tx1797\i0\f4\fs24\lang1033 List\expndtw-6  \expndtw0 out\expndtw-2  \expndtw0 the\expndtw-4  \expndtw0 input\expndtw-2  \expndtw0 device.\par

\pard\brdrl\brdrs\brdrw5\brsp100 \brdrt\brdrs\brdrw5 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw5 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw5 {\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1796\cf11\f5 Keyboard\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Mouse\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Touchscreen\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Trackpad\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Joystick\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Gamepad\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Scanner\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Barcode reader\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Digital pen/stylus\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Microphone\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Webcam\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}MIDI controller (Musical Instrument Digital Interface)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Graphics tablet\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Trackball\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Touchpad\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Optical character recognition (OCR) device\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Biometric input devices (fingerprint scanner, facial recognition scanner, etc.)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Motion sensing devices (accelerometer, gyroscope, etc.)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Voice recognition devices (speech-to-text input devices)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Light pen\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Infrared (IR) remote control\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Digital camera\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Smart card reader\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Magnetic stripe reader\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Game controllers (steering wheel, flight joystick, etc.)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Gesture recognition devices\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Inertial measurement unit (IMU)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Eye-tracking devices\cf0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Do a practical to identify input device and describe how it works.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\fs40 Topic: Output Device\cf13\fs28\par
 \fs40 Assignment Level Basic\fs28\par
\cf0 1. What are output device? \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf6\highlight4\i0\f2\fs24\lang1033 An output device is any piece of computer hardware that converts information into a human-perceptible form or, historically, into a physical machine-readable form for use with other non-computerized equipment. It can be text, graphics, tactile, audio, or video.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. how does output device work?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf7\i0\f2\fs24\lang1033 The computer processes the input and then sends a new signal to the output device\cf6\highlight4\~. The output devices receive the signal and display the output\~\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf16\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\cf0\fs28\par
1. List out the output device.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf7\i0\f2\fs24\lang1033 monitors, printers, speakers, headphones, projectors, GPS devices, optical mark readers, and braille readers\cf6\highlight4 .\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Do a practical to identify the output device and describe its working process.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf17\fs40 Topic: Motherboard\cf0\fs28\par
\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\fs28\par
1. What is motherboard? \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf6\highlight4\i0\f2\fs24\lang1033 The motherboard is\~\cf7\highlight0 the backbone that ties the computer's components together at one spot and allows them to talk to each other\cf6\highlight4 . Without it, none of the computer pieces, such as the CPU, GPU, or hard drive, could interact.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Why it is called motherboard?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf6\highlight4\i0\f2\fs24\lang1033 It's called a motherboard\~\cf7\highlight0 because it's the main circuit board\cf6\highlight4 . Much like the term \ldblquote mothership," the word motherboard signifies its essential nature. Additional circuit boards can be plugged into a motherboard, and these are known as \ldblquote daughterboards.\rdblquote\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf18\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\cf0\fs28\par
1. What it is called if we remove all components from the motherboard?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 If all components are removed from the motherboard, leaving only the bare circuit board, it is commonly referred to as a "bare motherboard" or simply an "empty motherboard\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Describe types of motherboard.\par

\pard\cbpat4{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-180\li2160\sa60\cf6\i0\f2\fs24\lang1033 Standard ATX motherboard.\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Micro ATX motherboard. \par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}eXtended ATX motherboard.\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Flex ATX motherboard. \par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Low-Profile EXtended (LPX) motherboard. \par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}BTX motherboard. \par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Pico BTX motherboard.\cf0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf8\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignments level Advance:\cf0\fs28\par
1. Do a practical by identifying parts of motherboard.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Do a practical by describing the data flow in motherboard\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 3. Do a practical by removing all removable parts from the motherboard.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf17\fs40 Topic: CPU\cf0\fs28\par
\cf19\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\par
\cf0\fs28 1. What is CPU.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf6\highlight4\i0\f2\fs24\lang1033 The Central Processing Unit (CPU) is\~\cf7\highlight0 the primary component of a computer that acts as its \ldblquote control center.\rdblquote\cf6\highlight4\~\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Write the full form of CPU.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\i0\f4\fs24\lang1033 CPU . CENTRAL PROCESSING UNIT\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf20\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\par
\cf0\fs28 1. What are the types of CPU?\par

\pard\cbpat4 
{\pntext\f5 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf5\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li2469\cf21\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Single \endash  Core CPU\par
{\pntext\f5 2.\tab}Dual \endash  Core CPU\par
{\pntext\f5 3.\tab}Quad \endash  Core CPU\par
{\pntext\f5 4.\tab}Hexa \endash  Core CPU\par
{\pntext\f5 5.\tab}Octa \endash  Core CPU\par
{\pntext\f5 6.\tab}Deca \endash  Core CPU\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\i\f0\fs28\lang9 2. What do we need to keep the CPU Healthy?\par

\pard\cbpat4{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li2108\cf22\i0\f6\fs24\lang1033  Restart your computer at least once a week It\rquote s easy to ignore this simple tip, yet it is essential. ..Hygiene your Programs .... Defrag your                   \par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}hard drive ..\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Investigate Startup programs ...\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Install Antivirus Software .\cf0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf8\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Advance\par
\cf0\fs28 1. Do a practical to remove processor and apply thermal paste in it and install it again. \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Do a practical to Identify CPU and its Sockets\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf23\fs40 Topic: Monitor\cf0\fs28\par
\cf15\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\cf0\fs28\par
1. What is Monitor?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 A monitor, also known as a display screen or computer screen, is an output device that visually presents information generated by a computer or other electronic devices. It provides a visual interface for users to interact with the computer system and view the output of their activities\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf9\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\cf0\fs28\par
1. List out the types of monitor.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 LCD (Liquid Crystal Display)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}LED (Light Emitting Diode)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}OLED (Organic Light Emitting Diode)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}CRT (Cathode Ray Tube)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Curved Monitors:\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 2. Do a practical to identify monitor Technology. \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 3. What are the Technologies used in monitor.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf22\highlight4\i0\f6\fs24\lang1033 There are three major LCD technologies used in today\rquote s PC monitors:\~\highlight0 twisted nematic (TN), vertical alignment (VA) and in-plane switching (IPS)\highlight4 .\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf23\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Advance\cf0\fs28\par
1. Describe how does the crt monitor works.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 A CRT (Cathode Ray Tube) monitor works by using a large, glass vacuum tube that contains several key components to produce images on the screen.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf17\fs40 Topic: system bus\cf0\fs28\par
\cf1\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\cf0\fs28\par
1. What is system bus\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 The system bus, also known as the front-side bus or system interface, is a communication pathway that allows different components within a computer system to exchange data and instructions. It is a critical part of the computer's architecture and facilitates communication between the CPU (Central Processing Unit), memory, and other hardware devices\cf24\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  \cf19 Assignment Level Intermediate\par
\cf0\fs28 1. List out the types of system bas\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\i0\fs24 Front-side bus [fsb]\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Back-side bus[bsb]\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Memory bus\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Pci express[pcle]\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\i\fs28 2. Describe the working of system bus.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 A system bus works\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1       by sharing data and other information\par
     between various aspects of the computer \par
    's hardware\par
3. Do a practical to identify the system bus.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf25\fs40 Topic: Chipset\cf0\fs28\par
\cf8\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\cf0\fs28\par
1. What is chipset\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 A chipset is a set of integrated circuits (chips) that are designed to work together to provide various functions and support the communication between the CPU (Central Processing Unit)\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf26\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\par
\cf0\fs28 1. What are the types of chipset?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\i0\fs24 For PC motherboards, there are two main chipsets: the northbridge and the southbridge. The northbridge is directly connected to the CPU, allowing for faster transmissions between it and ports that require faster speeds. These include your RAM modules and PCI express cards, as well as AGP.\i\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Which chipset does have direct contact with the cpu.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 component of the chipset that handles the high-speed communication between the CPU, memory, and graphics card (if it is integrated on the motherboard).The chipset that has direct contact with the CPU is called the Northbridge. The Northbridge is a \cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 3. Do a practical to identify the chipset\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf13\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Advance\par
\cf0\fs28 1. Describe how does the Northbridge chipset work\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 The Northbridge is a key component of the computer chipset that facilitates high-speed communication between the CPU (Central Processing Unit), memory, and graphics card (if integrated on the motherboard).\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf8\fs40 Topic:Memory\cf0\fs28\par
\cf1\f1\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\cf0\fs28\par
1. What is memory?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Memory, in the context of computers, refers to the electronic storage space used for storing data and instructions that the computer needs to access quickly. It is an essential component of a computer system and is responsible for holding temporary and permanent data that the CPU (Central Processing Unit) can read from and write to.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. What are the types of memory\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Random Access Memory (RAM): Common types of RAM include DDR4, DDR3, and DDR2.\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Read-Only Memory (ROM)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Flash Memory\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Cache Memory\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Graphics Memory (VRAM)\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf27\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\par
\cf0\fs28 1. Describe memory in detail.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Memory in a computer system refers to the electronic storage space that is used to store data and instructions that the computer needs to access quickly. It plays a crucial role in the overall functioning and performance of a computer. Memory can be categorized into two main types: primary memory (main memory) and secondary memory (storage devices).\cf0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 2. What are memory types.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li2156\sl-341\slmult0\tx1797\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Random Access Memory (RAM): Common types of RAM include DDR4, DDR3, and DDR2.\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Read-Only Memory (ROM)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Flash Memory\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Cache Memory\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Graphics Memory (VRAM)\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf19\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Advance\cf24\par
\cf0\fs28 1. Do a practical to identify memory types. \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Do a practical to install memories in system\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 3. Do a practical to identify main memory frequencies\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf13\fs40 Topic: System Unit\cf0\fs28\par
\cf16\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\cf0\fs28\par
1. What is System Unit?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 The system unit is the main component or enclosure of a desktop computer that houses the internal hardware components required for the computer to function. It is also referred to as the computer case, tower, or chassis. The system unit typically consists of a metal or plastic case that protects and organizes the internal components of the computer.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf26\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\cf0\fs28\par
1. How does system unit work?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Power Suply\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Motherboard\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Cooling System\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Data Transfer and Communication\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Front Panel Interfaces\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 2. What are the components and system unity?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Motherboard: The motherboard is the main circuit board of the computer system.\highlight0  Central Processing Unit (CPU): The CPU, also known as the processor, is the brain of the  computer. It performs the majority of the calculations and executes instructions. The CPU interprets and  processes data, performs arithmetic and logical operations, and controls the overall operation of the   computer system\highlight12   Random Access Memory (RAM): RAM is the primary memory of the computer system.\highlight0 .  \par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}  \highlight12 Power Supply Unit (PSU): The PSU supplies power to the components within the system unit.\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab} Cooling System: The system unit includes a cooling system to regulate the temperature of the internal components.\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab} Front Panel Connectors: The front panel of the system unit contains various connectors and interfaces for easy access.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf28\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Advance\cf0\fs28\par
1. Do a practical to identify system unit.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Do a practical to assemble and disassemble system unit.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf29\fs40 Topic: BIOS\cf0\fs28\par
\cf13\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\cf0\fs28\par
1. What is bios.\b0\i0\f4\lang1033\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\b\f5\fs24 Bios is an acronym that stands for Basic Input/Output System. It refers to a firmware or software component that is built into a computer's motherboard. The BIOS is responsible for initializing and controlling the hardware components of a computer system when it is first powered on.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf19\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\par
\cf0\fs28 1. What is the full form of bios \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 The full form of BIOS is "Basic Input/Output System\b0\fs28 ."\cf0\highlight0\b\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2.Describe working process of BIOS.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Power-On: When the computer is turned on, the first action taken is to initialize the BIOS. Power-On Self-Test (POST): The BIOS performs a series of tests known as the Power-On Self-Test. These tests check the hardware components to ensure they are functioning correctly.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf9\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Advance\par
\cf0\fs28 1. Do a practical to reset bios when system is on. \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Do a practical of Hard resetting the BIOS.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 3. Do a practical of identifying BIOS chip from the motherboard\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf20\fs40 Topic: CMOS\par
\cf1\f7\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\cf0\fs28\par
1.What is CMOS?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 CMOS stands for Complementary Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor. It refers to a type of semiconductor technology used in the manufacturing of integrated circuits. In the context of computers, CMOS commonly refers to the CMOS battery and CMOS memory present on the computer's motherboard.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf25\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\cf0\fs28\par
1. What is the full form of CMOS? \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 The full form of CMOS is "Complementary Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor."\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Describe the working process of CMOS.\par

\pard\brdrl\brdrs\brdrw5\brsp100 \brdrt\brdrs\brdrw5 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw5 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw5\brsp40 {\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1440\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Power Supply: The CMOS circuitry receives power from a dedicated CMOS battery located on the computer's motherboard Configuration Storage: CMOS memory is used to store configuration settings and parameters.\highlight0  Initialization: When the computer is powered on, the CMOS is initialized by the BIOS (Basic Input/Output System). The BIOS reads the stored configuration settings from the CMOS memory to properly configure the system during the boot-up process.\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\b\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par
\cf8\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Advance\cf0\fs28\par
1. Do a practical of identifying cmos. \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Do a practical of installing cmos\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 3. How do we know that cmos is not working.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 No power or boot failure\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}BIOS errors or incorrect settings\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Incorrect time and date\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Inability to save BIOS settings\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\fs40 Topic: Boot process\cf0\fs28\par
\cf19\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\cf0\fs28\par
1.What is Boot Process?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf22\highlight4\i0\f6\fs24\lang1033 Booting is basically\~the process of starting the computer.\~When the CPU is first switched on it has nothing inside the Memory. In order to start the Computer, load the Operating System into the Main Memory and then Computer is ready to take commands from the User\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf30\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\cf0\fs28\par
1. What is the first process of boot?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf22\b0\i0\f6\fs24\lang1033  \b The Startup It is the first step that involves switching the power ON. \par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab} BIOS: Power On Self Test It is an initial test performed by the BIOS.\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab} Loading of OS In this step, the operating system is loaded into the main memory\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab} System Configuration \par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab} Loading System Utilities \cf0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 2. What is the final stage in the boot process?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf22\highlight4\i0\f6\fs24\lang1033 Once the previous steps are complete and the operating system is safely loaded into RAM, the boot process relinquishes control to the OS. The OS then proceeds to execute any pre-configured startup routines to define user configuration or application execution. At the end of the\~\highlight0 handoff\highlight4 , the computer is ready for use.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 3. Describe the boot process in Linux?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sb52\tx1749\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Power-on and firmware initialization\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Bootloader activation\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Kernel loading\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Initial RAM disk\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Root file system mountingInit process\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Service initialization\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}User environment\cf0\highlight0\f4\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sb52\tx1749\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf20\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Advance\cf0\fs28\par
1. Describe about working with the grub bootloader.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf22\highlight4\i0\f6\fs24\lang1033 The\~\highlight0 GRUB Linux Bootloader\highlight4\~is the most widely used bootloader for Linux. Every aspiring Linux user would benefit from learning about Ubuntu GRUB. In this tutorial, you will learn what GRUB is, how the booting process works, and dive into several helpful Ubuntu GRUB configurations.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Describe working process of boot loader.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf22\i0\f6\fs24\lang1033 Data of an operating system must be loaded into the working memory during device start-up\highlight4 . This is made possible by a so-called bootloader, also known as a boot program or bootstrap loader. For this purpose, immediately after a device starts, a bootloader is generally launched by a bootable medium like a hard drive, a CD/DVD, or a USB stick.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf16\fs40 Topic: SMPS\cf0\fs28\par
\cf14\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\cf0\fs28\par
1. What is SMPS?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 SMPS stands for Switched-Mode Power Supply. It is a type of power supply that efficiently converts electrical power from one form to another by using high-frequency switching techniques. SMPS is widely used in electronic devices, computers, telecommunications equipment, and many other applications.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. What is the process of SMPS?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sb47\tx1749\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Rectification\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Filtering\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Power Conversion\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Pulse Width Modulation (PWM)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Output Regulation\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Output Filtering\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}rotection and Safety Features\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf23\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\cf0\fs28\par
1. DO a practical to install SMPS.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. How many sata connectors are there in normal smps?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Most standard ATX power supplies, commonly used in desktop computers, typically have multiple SATA power connectors. A typical SMPS may have anywhere from two to eight or more SATA power connectors, depending on the capacity and intended usage of the PSU\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf8\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Advance\cf0\fs28\par
1. Do a practical to troubleshoot a smps without plugging it to the system. \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. How many pins does atx power connector have?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 The ATX power connector used in computer power supplies typically has 20+4 pins. This connector is known as the ATX 24-pin connector. It is the main power connector that provides power to the motherboard and other components in the system.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\fs40 Topic: RAM\cf0\fs28\par
\cf26\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\cf0\fs28\par
1. What is RAM?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 RAM stands for Random Access Memory. It is a type of computer memory that is used to temporarily store data that the computer needs to access quickly. RAM is a crucial component in a computer system and plays a vital role in determining its performance.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 2. What is the full form of RAM?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 The full form of RAM is "Random Access Memory."\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf31\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\cf0\fs28\par
1. What are the types of ram? \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl-340\slmult0\tx1797\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 DRAM (Dynamic Random Access Memory)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}SRAM (Static Random Access Memory)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}SDRAM (Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}DDR SDRAM (Double Data Rate Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}DDR2, DDR3, DDR4, DDR5\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 2. Do a practical to identify RAM.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf13\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Advance\par
\cf0\fs28 1. Do a Practical to identify ram and install it in a proper system.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf16\fs40 Topic: Device and cable\cf0\fs28\par
\cf1\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\cf0\fs28\par
1. What are the types of devices? \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl-337\slmult0\tx1797\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Input Devices\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Output Devices\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Storage Devices\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Communication Devices\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Processing Units\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Display Devices\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Audio Devices\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 2. What are the types of cable?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sb52\tx1797\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Coaxial Cable\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Ethernet Cable\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}HDMI Cable\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}USB Cable\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}VGA Cable\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Power Cables\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf19\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\cf0\fs28\par
1. What cables are used to connect printer?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl-340\slmult0\tx1797\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 USB Cable\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Ethernet Cable\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Wi-Fi or Wireless Connection\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 2. What was the first cable founded by Apple for data transfer?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 The first cable introduced by Apple for data transfer was the Apple Desktop Bus (ADB) cable. The ADB cable was a proprietary connector and communication protocol developed by Apple in the mid-1980s. It was primarily used to connect input devices, such as keyboards and mice, to Apple computers and peripherals.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf29\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Advance\cf0\fs28\par
1. Do a practical to identify the sata cables.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Do a practical to identify and install the cables in the system.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\fs40 Topic: Expansion card and slots\cf0\fs28\par
\cf26\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\cf0\fs28\par
1. Why expansion card needed? \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Expansion cards are needed in a computer system to enhance or extend its capabilities by adding new functionality.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Why expansion slots needed?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf22\highlight4\i0\f6\fs24\lang1033 An expansion slot refers to any of the slots on a motherboard that can hold an expansion card to\~\highlight0 expand the computer's functionality\highlight4 , like a video card, network card, or sound card. What Are Expansion Slots Used For? The expansion card is plugged directly into the expansion port so that the motherboard has direct access to the hardware.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf30\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\par
\cf0\fs28 1. What are the types of expansion card? \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sb52\tx1797\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs22\lang1033 Graphics Card (GPU)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Sound Card\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Network Interface Card (NIC)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}USB Expansion Card\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}FireWire\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. What are the types of expansion cards?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sb52\tx1797\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Graphics Card (GPU)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Sound Card\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Network Interface Card (NIC)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}USB Expansion Card\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}FireWire\cf15\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Advance\par
\cf0\fs28 1. Do a practical to identify the types of expansion slots\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Do a practical to install the Graphics card.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 3. Do a practical to install LAN card\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf31\fs40 Topic: I/O Ports\cf0\fs28\par
\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\fs28\par
1. What is I/O ports?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf22\highlight4\i0\f6\fs24\lang1033 I/O ports\~\highlight0 allow for connections to hardware\highlight4 . This hardware could be internal or external. The ports are associated with copper circuits and memory ranges that allow the communication of data between the CPU, RAM, and the ports themselves. Common I/O ports include USB and FireWire.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. List out the I/O ports available\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sb51\tx1797\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 USB Ports\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Audio Ports\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}HDMI Port\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}DisplayPort\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Ethernet Port\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}VGA Port\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}PS/2 Port \par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}FireWire Port\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 3. Do a practical to identify the I/O ports.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf9\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\par
\cf0\fs28 1. What is I/O ports?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs24 (1) (Input/Output port) An I/O port is a socket on a computer that a cable is plugged into. The port connects the CPU to a peripheral device via a hardware interface or to the network via a network interface. See port, standards - hardware interfaces, DisplayPort, HDMI and USB.\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. List out the I/O ports available\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\i0\fs24 Serial Port : Used for external modems and older computer mouse. ...\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Parallel Port : Used for scanners and printers. ...\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Universal Serial Bus (or USB) Port : ...\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Firewire Port : ...\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Ethernet Port :\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\i\fs28 3. Do a practical to identify the I/O ports.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs24 Serial Port : Used for external modems and older computer mouse. ...\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Parallel Port : Used for scanners and printers. ...\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Universal Serial Bus (or USB) Port : ...\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Firewire Port : ...\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Ethernet Port :\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\fs40 Topic: BIOS & CMOS\cf0\fs28\par
\cf16\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\par
\cf0\fs28 1. What is BIOS? \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Bios is an acronym that stands for Basic Input/Output System. It refers to a firmware or software component that is built into a computer's motherboard. The BIOS is responsible for initializing and controlling the hardware components of a computer system when it is first powered on.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. What is CMOS?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 CMOS stands for Complementary Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor. It refers to a type of semiconductor technology used in the manufacturing of integrated circuits. In the context of computers, CMOS commonly refers to the CMOS battery and CMOS memory present on the computer's motherboard.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf20\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\cf0\fs28\par
1. What is the role of BIOS in i/o? \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 The role of the BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) in I/O (Input/Output) is to provide the necessary firmware and software support for managing and controlling the input and output devices connected to a computer system.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 l2. What is the role of i/o in CMOS?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 I/O (Input/Output) does not directly have a role in CMOS (Complementary Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor) itself. CMOS refers to a type of semiconductor technology used to construct integrated circuits, including the CMOS chips that form the basis of the BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) on a computer motherboard\b0\fs22 .\cf0\highlight0\b\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Advance\fs28\par
1 Do a practical to reset BIOS \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Do a practical to remove cmos.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf19\fs40 Topic: Laptop & storage\par
\cf8\f7\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\cf19\par
\cf0\fs28 1. What is laptop?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 A laptop, also known as a notebook computer, is a portable personal computer designed for mobile use. It is smaller, lighter, and more compact than a desktop computer, allowing users to carry it with them and use it in various locations.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Why laptop is used widely now a days?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Laptops offer the convenience of being portable, allowing users to carry their computing power with them wherever they go. This flexibility is particularly beneficial for students, professionals, and individuals who need to work or access information on the go or in different locations.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf9\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\cf0\fs28\par
1. Describe the working process of laptop? \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl-337\slmult0\tx1749\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Power On\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Boot Process\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Operating System Loading\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}User Login\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Application Execution\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Input and Output \tab\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Shutdown or Sleep\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 2. What is storage?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Storage refers to the process of saving and retaining data or information in a computer system or other electronic devices for later retrieval and use. It is an essential component of a computer system that allows for the persistent storage of files, documents, applications, and other digital content.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 3. List out the types of storage.\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f5 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf5\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sb52\tx1749\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Hard Disk Drives (HDD)\par
{\pntext\f5 2.\tab}Solid-State Drives (SSD)\par
{\pntext\f5 3.\tab}Hybrid Drives\par
{\pntext\f5 4.\tab}USB Flash Drives\par
{\pntext\f5 5.\tab}Memory Cards\par
{\pntext\f5 6.\tab}Cloud Storage\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Advance\cf0\fs28\par
1. Do a practical to identify types of storage.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Do a practical to disassemble and assemble the storage.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 3. Do a practical to install the storage devices.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf8\fs40 Topic: Printer\par
\cf31\f7\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\cf8\par
\cf0\fs28 1. What is printer?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 A printer is a peripheral device that produces a hard copy (printed output) of electronic documents or images stored in a computer or other digital devices. It takes digital data and converts it into a physical, printed form on paper or other media.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Why is printer needed?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Printers allow you to produce physical copies of digital documents, such as reports, letters, contracts, and presentations. Having printed documents can be convenient for sharing, distributing, and archiving information.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf13\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\par
\cf0\fs28 1. Describe the working process of printer. \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl-337\slmult0\tx1749\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Data Processing\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Print Settings\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Paper Feeding\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Print Head Movement\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Ink or Toner Application\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Fixation\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Output Delivery:\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 2. What are the types of printer.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sb52\tx1749\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Inkjet Printers\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Laser Printers\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Dot Matrix Printers\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}3D Printers\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Thermal Printers\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Photo Printers\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Mobile Printers\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Advance\par
\cf0\fs28 3. Do a practical to install the printer\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 4. Do a practical to Troubleshoot the improper printing.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf8\fs40 Topic: Storage devices\cf0\par
\f7\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\par
\fs28 1. What is storage device?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 A storage device is a hardware component or device used to store and retrieve digital information, such as data, files, documents, and media. It provides a means to store data in a persistent manner, allowing users to access and retrieve the stored information at a later time.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Why we need storage device\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Storage devices provide a means to store and preserve digital data. Whether it's documents, photos, videos, music, or software files, storage devices allow us to keep our valuable data safe and accessible. Storage devices facilitate the transfer and sharing of files between devices and individuals. Portable storage devices like USB flash drives or external hard drives allow for convenient data transfer between computers, eliminating the need for network connectivity or internet access.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf13\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\cf0\fs28\par
1. List out the types of storage devices.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sl-323\slmult0\tx1797\i0\f4\fs24\lang1033 List\expndtw-6  \expndtw0 out\expndtw-1  \expndtw0 the\expndtw-4  \expndtw0 types\expndtw-2  \expndtw0 of\expndtw-3  \expndtw0 storage devices.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sb52\tx1749\cf11\highlight12\f5 Hard Disk Drives (HDD)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Solid-State Drives (SSD)\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Hybrid Drives\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}USB Flash Drives\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Memory Cards\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Cloud Storage\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 2. Describe the working process of storage devices.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sb144\tx1797\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Data Writing\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Data Reading\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Data Access and Transfer\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Error Correction and Management\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}File System Management\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf9\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Advance\par
\cf0\fs28 1. Do a practical to Remove storage devices and reinstall it and make a gpt disk.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf8\fs40 Topic: ATA\par
\cf14\f7\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Intermediate\cf0\fs28\par
1. What is ATA?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 ATA stands for "Advanced Technology Attachment." It is a standard interface used for connecting storage devices, such as hard disk drives (HDDs) and optical drives, to a computer's motherboard or host controller.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf19\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level intermediate:\cf0\fs28\par
1. Describe working of ATA.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sb198\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Connection\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Initialization\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Mode Selection\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Data Transfer\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Error Correction and Data Integrity\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment level Advanced:\par
\cf0\fs28 1. Do a practical to identify and install ATA cables.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf8\fs40 Topic: SATA\cf0\fs28\par
\cf13\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic\cf0\fs28\par
1.What is SATA?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 SATA stands for "Serial Advanced Technology Attachment." It is a standard interface used for connecting storage devices, such as hard disk drives (HDDs) and solid-state drives (SSDs), to a computer's motherboard or host controller. SATA replaced the older parallel ATA (PATA) interface and offers several advantages, including faster data transfer rates and improved cable management.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf15\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Advance \cf0\fs28\par
1. Describe the working of SATA. \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sb198\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Connection\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Initialization\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Mode Selection\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Data Transfer\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Error Correction and Data Integrity\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 2. Do a practical to identify sata. \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 4. Where does SATA is used.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sb52\tx1749\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Personal Computers\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Servers\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}External Hard Drive\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Network Attached Storage (NAS)\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 3. Do a practical to install SATA.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf18\fs40 Topic: SCSI\cf0\fs28\par
\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Basic\fs28\par
1. What is SCSI? \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\i0\fs24 CSI (Small Computer System Interface) is used to connect and communicate between computers and peripheral devices, such as hard disk drives, tape drives, CD/DVD drives, and scanners. SCSI was originally developed as both a protocol and a parallel physical interface.\i\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. WHy SCSI needed?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 SCSI was designed to provide high-speed data transfer between computers and peripheral devices, particularly storage devices. The parallel interface of SCSI allowed for simultaneous transmission of multiple data bits, enabling faster data transfer rates compared to other interfaces available at the time.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment level Intermediate:\cf0\fs28\par
1. What is the rpm of SCSI? \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 SCSI is an interface standard that defines the communication protocol between computers and peripheral devices, including storage devices. SCSI can be used with different types of storage devices, such as HDDs or SSDs, and the rotational speed of the storage device is determined by the specific model and technology used.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Do a Practical to install scsi.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf31\fs40 Topic: Laptop\cf13\fs28\par
\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment Level Basic:\fs28\par
\cf0 1. What is laptop?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs22\lang1033 A laptop, also known as a notebook computer, is a portable personal computer designed for mobile use. It is a compact and self-contained device that integrates all the major components of a desktop computer into a single unit.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. What are the types of laptop? \par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sb52\tx1797\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Ultraportable Laptops\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Traditional Laptops\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Gaming Laptops\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Business Laptops\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 3. Diffrent names of laptop.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sb47\tx1797\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Notebook\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Ultrabook\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Netbook\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\lang1033 Chromebook\b0\fs22\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sb47\tx1797\cf0\highlight0\b\i\f0\fs24\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf19\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment level Intermediate\cf0\fs28 :\par
1. What are the parts of laptop?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\i0\f4\fs24\lang1033 CPU \par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}RAM \par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}STORAGE\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}DISPLAY\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}KEYBORD\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}BATTERY\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 2. Do a practical of identifying parts of the laptop.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf32\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment level Advance.\cf0\fs28\par
1. Do a practical to disassemble the laptop.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. Do a practical to change the RAM in the laptop.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\fs40 TOPIC: PRINTER\cf0\fs28\par
\cf9\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  ASSIGNMENT LEVEL BASIC:\cf0\fs28\par
1. WHAT IS PRINTER?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 A printer is a device that produces hard copies of digital documents or images on paper or other printable materials. It is an output peripheral that is commonly used in homes, offices, and other settings to create physical copies of digital files. Printers work by transferring ink or toner onto paper in a specific pattern to replicate the content of the digital file.\cf0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. IS IT A INPUT DEVICE OR OUTPUT DEVICE?\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 A printer is generally considered an output device. It receives digital information from a computer or another device and produces a physical copy of that information, such as text documents, images, or graphics, on paper or other printable media. Therefore, the printer outputs information in a tangible form, making it an output device.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf16\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment level intermediate:\par
\cf0\fs28 1. Describe the types of printer.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\sb52\tx1749\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 Inkjet Printers\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Laser Printers\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Dot Matrix Printers\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}3D Printers\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Thermal Printers\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Photo Printers\par
{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}Mobile Printers\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 2. Describe inkjet printer.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf11\highlight12\i0\f5\fs24\lang1033 An inkjet printer is a type of printer that uses small nozzles to spray tiny droplets of ink onto paper or other printable media to create text, images, or graphics.\cf0\highlight0\i\f0\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\f7\fs40\'b7\f0  Assignment level Advanced:\par
\cf0\fs28 1. Do a practical of network installation of the printer.\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. do a practical to troubleshoot the printer of no cartridge error\par

\pard{\pntext\f9\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf9\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 done\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\f8\fs22\par
\par
}
 