{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 @Malgun Gothic;}{\f2\fnil Calibri;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Arial Narrow;}{\f4\fnil @Malgun Gothic;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset1 Segoe UI Symbol;}{\f6\fnil\fcharset2 Wingdings;}{\f7\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f8\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green255\blue255;\red4\green12\blue40;\red32\green33\blue36;\red77\green81\blue86;\red243\green243\blue243;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs44\lang9 Module: 13 Networking with Windows Server\fs32\par
Installing and configure DNS server\par
1. Describe DNS operation\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 A Domain Name System (DNS)\~\highlight0 turns domain names into IP addresses, which allow browsers to get to websites and other internet resources\highlight1 . Every device on the internet has an IP address, which other devices can use to locate the device.\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
2. DNS query\f2\emdash Iterative and Recursive\par
\cf2\f1\fs24 A recursive DNS lookup is where one DNS server communicates with several other DNS servers to hunt down an IP address and return it to the client\cf3\highlight1 . This is in contrast to an iterative DNS query, where the client communicates directly with each DNS server involved in the lookup\f3\fs32 .\cf0\highlight0\f2\par
3. what is forward lookup zone and its resource type\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 Forward Lookup Zones\f4\emdash\f1 Forward Lookup Zones\f4\~\f1 allow the DNS Server to resolve queries where the client sends a name to the DNS Server to request the IP address of the requested host. \f5\u9642?\f1\~Reverse Lookup\~Zones\f4\emdash\f1 Reverse DNS zones perform the opposite task as Forward Lookup Zones.\highlight0\f2\fs32\par
4. what is reverse lookup zone and its resource type\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 As mentioned earlier, a reverse lookup zone is\~\highlight0 an authoritative DNS zone that is used primarily to resolve IP addresses to network resource names\highlight1 . This zone type can be primary, secondary, or Active Directory\f4\emdash\f1 integrated.\highlight0\f2\fs32\par
5. what is conditional forwarder\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 Conditional DNS forwarding is\~\highlight0 a method to direct DNS queries related to a specific domain to another DNS server\highlight1 . This is done by creating conditional DNS forwarders or rules on the DNS server. This is a simple and reliable method to resolve DNS queries belonging to an external domain.\highlight0\f2\fs32\par
6. what is primary zone, secondary zone and stub zone\par
\cf3\highlight1\f1\fs24 In summary, primary zones are read-write copies of zone data and hosted by primary DNS servers, secondary zones contain read-only copies of zone data and are used for load balancing and fault tolerance, and stub zones contain only resource records for the domain's name servers and are used for faster name resolution\cf0\highlight0\f2\fs32\par
7. what is active directory integrated zone\par
\cf3\highlight1\f1\fs24 Active Directory integrated zone is essentially\~\cf2\highlight0 a primary zone in the DNS services\cf3\highlight1 . The DNS records are securely stored in the Active Directory database. The advantage of this is that any Domain Controller with the DNS role installed can access the Active Directory Integrated zone.\cf0\highlight0\par
\f2\fs32 8. primary server, secondary server, cache only server\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 Primary DNS servers contain all relevant resource records and handle DNS queries for a domain. By contrast, secondary DNS servers contain zone file copies that are read-only, meaning they cannot be modified.\highlight0\f2\fs32\par
9. what is aging and scavenging\par
\cf3\highlight1\f1\fs24 It is\~\cf2\highlight0 a Windows DNS Server feature that will automate the cleanup of stale dynamically registered DNS records\cf3\highlight1 . DNS Scavenging will only remove records based on their timestamp. DNS scavenging will not remove statically configured records.\cf0\highlight0\f2\fs32\par
10. what is MX record\par
\cf4\highlight1\f1\fs24 A DNS 'mail exchange' (MX) record\~\cf2\highlight0 directs email to a mail server\cf4\highlight1 . The MX record indicates how email messages should be routed in accordance with the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP, the standard protocol for all email). Like CNAME records, an MX record must always point to another domain.\cf0\highlight0\f2\fs32\par
\f6\fs36\'b7\f0  Practical\fs32\par
1. install active directory integrated dns\par
yes\par
2. create secondary dns and zone transfer\par
yes\par
3. create \ldblquote A\rdblquote  record\par
yes\par
4. create alias\par
yes\par
5. create reverse lookupzone\par
yes\par
6. make a pointer\par
yes\par
7. apply conditional forwareder betwwen two different domain\par
yes\par
8. nslookup command\par
yes\par
\fs36 DHCP\fs32\par
1. purpose of DHCP\par
\cf3\highlight1\f1\fs24 Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is a network protocol that is used\~\cf2\highlight0 to configure network devices to communicate on an IP network\cf3\highlight1 . A DHCP client uses the DHCP protocol to acquire configuration information, such as an IP address, a\~default route, and one or more DNS server addresses from a DHCP server.\cf0\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
2. what is DORA process?\par
\cf3\highlight1\f1\fs24 DORA stands for\~\cf2\highlight0 Discover, Offer, Request, Acknowledge\cf3\highlight1 . DHCP uses Dora Process to provide an IP Address to hosts or client machines. It collects all of the IP addresses from the central server that are accessible and gives them to hosts that want to connect to the network.\cf0\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
3. what is authorised DHCP server?\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 A DHCP server that is\~\highlight0 a member server of an Active Directory domain\highlight1\~performs a query in Active Directory to determine whether it is authorized. If it is, it will respond to DHCP requests, if not, it will not respond to requests.\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
4. describe scope, lease duration, DHCP option, exclude address\par
\f1\fs24 To prevent address conflicts\highlight1 , you can create an exclusion range for the DHCP scope. An exclusion range is a contiguous range of IP addresses within the scope's IP address range that the DHCP server isn't allowed to use\highlight0\par
\f0\fs32 5. what is reservation?\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 Reservation is\~\highlight0 a system of affirmative action in India created during the British rule\highlight1 . It provides historically disadvantaged groups representation in education, employment, government schemes, scholarships and politics.\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
6. what is dhcp relay agent?\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 The DHCP relay agent operates as\~\highlight0 the interface between DHCP clients and the server\highlight1 . The DHCP Relay Agent relays DHCP messages between DHCP clients and DHCP servers on different IP networks. This example describes how to configure the DHCP relay agent on the SRX Series Firewall.\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
7. describe ipconfig commnad\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 pconfig (standing for "Internet Protocol configuration") is a console application program of some computer operating systems that displays all current TCP/IP network configuration values and refreshes Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) and Domain Name System (DNS) settings. ipconfig.\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
\f6\fs36\'b7\f0  Practical\fs32\par
1. install dhcp sever and make authorize\par
yes\par
2. create a scope and check on client by ipconfig\par
yes\par
3. dhcp database and take backup\par
yes\par
4. dhcp failover\par
yes\par
5. dhcp relay agent\par
yes\par
6. dhcp filter\par
yes\par
7. dhcp reservation\par
yes\par
\fs36 IPAM\fs32\par
1. what is IPAM and purpose of IPAM\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 IPAM (IP Address Management) is\~\highlight0 the administration of DNS and DHCP, which are the network services that assign and resolve IP addresses to machines in a TCP/IP network\highlight1 . Simply put, IPAM is a means of planning, tracking, and managing the Internet Protocol address space used in a network.\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
2. why need dedicated server\par

\pard{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf8\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa160\sl259\slmult0\f1\fs24 Dedicated server benefits / From sources across the web\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}Better Security\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}Performance\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}Reliability\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}Security\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}Scalability\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}Customization\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}Flexibility\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}Dedicated resources\f0\fs32\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 3. which service monitor and manage by IPAM\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 IPAM monitors\~\highlight0 domain controllers and NPS servers\highlight1\~for IP address tracking purposes. In addition to monitoring functions, several DHCP server and scope properties can be configured from the IPAM console. Zone status monitoring and a limited set of configuration functions are also available for DNS servers.\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
\f6\fs36\'b7\f0  Practical\fs32\par
1. Install IPAM\par
yes\par
2. configure IPAM with six step\par
yes\par
3. create dhcp scope using IPAM 4 create DNS zone\par
yes\par
4. check monitoring of sevices\par
yes\par
\fs36 Remote connectivity and VPN\par
\fs32 1. what is VPN?\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 A VPN, which stands for virtual private network, establishes a digital connection between your computer and a remote server owned by a VPN provider, creating a point-to-point tunnel that encrypts your personal data, masks your IP address, and lets you sidestep website blocks and firewalls on the internet.\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
2. type of VPN\par
\f1\fs24 A virtual private network, or VPN, is an encrypted connection over the Internet from a device to a network\highlight1 . The encrypted connection helps ensure that sensitive data is safely transmitted. It prevents unauthorized people from eavesdropping on the traffic and allows the user to conduct work remotely.\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
3. tunneling protocol\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 A tunnelling protocol is\~\highlight0 one that encloses in its datagram another complete data packet that uses a different communications protocol\highlight1 . They essentially create a tunnel between two points on a network that can securely transmit any kind of data between them.\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
4. authentication protocol\par
\cf3\highlight1\f1\fs24 An authentication protocol\~\cf2\highlight0 allows the receiving party (such as a server) to verify the identity of another party\cf3\highlight1\~(such as a person using a mobile device to log in). Almost every single computer system uses some kind of network authentication to verify users\f3\fs30 .\cf0\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
5. what is routing\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 A computer network is made of many machines, called nodes, and paths or links that connect those nodes. Communication between two nodes in an interconnected network can take place through many different paths. Routing is\~\highlight0 the process of selecting the best path using some predetermined rules\highlight1 .\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
\f6\fs36\'b7\f0  Practical\fs32\par
1. install routing and remote access\par
yes\par
2. configure LAN routing\par
yes\par
3. configure vpn connection (VPN client)\par
yes\par
\fs36 Network policy server\fs32\par
1. what is Radius server\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 A RADIUS server is a central server that\~provides authentication and authorization services for remote users who access a network. It receives authentication requests from RADIUS clients, such as routers, firewalls, or VPNs, verifies the credentials of the user, and returns an authorization decision to the client.\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
2. what is authentication authorization and accounting\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 Authentication and authorization are\~\highlight0 two vital information security processes that administrators use to protect systems and information\highlight1 . Authentication verifies the identity of a user or service, and authorization determines their access rights.\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
3. RADIUS server operation method and radius client\par
\cf3\highlight1\f1\fs24 A RADIUS server is a central server that provides authentication and authorization services for remote users who access a network.\~\cf2\highlight0 It receives authentication requests from RADIUS clients, such as routers, firewalls, or VPNs, verifies the credentials of the user, and returns an authorization decision to the client\cf3\highlight1 .\cf0\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
4. RADIUS port number\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 RADIUS is transported over UDP/IP on ports\~\highlight5 1812 and 1813\highlight1 .\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
5. what is network policies (NPS)?\par
\f1\fs24 Network Policy Server\highlight1\~(NPS) allows you to create and enforce organization-wide network access policies for connection request authentication and authorization\f7 .\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
\f6\fs36\'b7\f0  Practical\fs32\par
1. P1 configure RADIUS for wireless client\par
yes\par
2. confiure NPS for remote access\par
yes\par
IPv4 addressing and IPv6 addressing\par
1. what is ip address?And type of ip address\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 Typically assigned by an internet service provider (ISP), an IP address is an online device address used for communicating across the internet. There are two versions of IP addresses that are commonly used on the internet:\~\highlight0 IPv4 and IPv6\highlight1 .\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
2. class of ip address\par

\pard{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf8\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa160\sl259\slmult0\b\f1\fs24\tab\b0 Public IP Range\tab Private IP Range\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}Class A\tab 1.0.0.0 to 127.0.0.0\tab 10.0.0.0 to 10.255.255.255\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}Class B\tab 128.0.0.0 to 191.255.0.0\tab 172.16.0.0 to 172.31.255.255\par
{\pntext\f8\'B7\tab}Class C\tab 192.0.0.0 to 223.255.255.0\tab 192.168.0.0 to 192.168.255.255\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs32 3. public ip address and private ip address\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 A public IP address is a unique IP address assigned to your network router by your internet service provider and can be accessed directly over the internet. A private IP address is a unique address that your network router assigns to your device. It is used within a private network to connect securely to other devices.\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
4. what is static ip address, dhcp and APIPA\par
\cf2\f1\fs24 APIPA serves as a DHCP server failover mechanism and makes it easier to configure and support small LANs\cf3\highlight1 . DHCP is a network management protocol that organizations can use to dynamically assign IP addresses and other network parameters to devices or nodes on their networks.\cf0\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
5. what is ipv6 address?\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 An IPv6 address is\~\highlight0 128 bits in length and consists of eight, 16-bit fields, with each field bounded by a colon\highlight1 . Each field must contain a hexadecimal number, in contrast to the dotted-decimal notation of IPv4 addresses.\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
6. ipv6 dhcp process\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 The request/response processing for DHCPv6 is\~\highlight0 transaction based and uses a set of best-effort messages to complete the transaction\highlight1 . To find a server, a client sends a DHCP Solicit from the interface which it wishes to configure. The client then awaits a DHCP Advertise message containing an IP address of a DHCP server.\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
7. what is NAT?\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 NAT stands for network address translation. It's\~\highlight0 a way to map multiple private addresses inside a local network to a public IP address before transferring the information onto the internet\highlight1 . Organizations that want multiple devices to employ a single IP address use NAT, as do most home routers\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
8. what id gateway address?\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 The gateway is used\~\highlight0 when transmitting packets\highlight1 . When packets are sent over a network, the destination IP address is examined. If the destination IP is outside of the network, then the packet goes to the gateway for transmission outside of the network. The gateway is on the same network as end devices\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
9. what is loopback address?\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 The IP address 127.0. 0.1 is called a loopback address. Packets sent to this address never reach the network but are looped through the network interface card only. This can be used for\~\highlight0 diagnostic purposes to verify that the internal path through the TCP/IP protocols is working\highlight1 .\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
10. different type of ipv6 address\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 The three types of IPv6 addresses are:\~\highlight0 unicast, anycast, and multicast\highlight1 . Unicast addresses identify a single interface. Anycast addresses identify a set of interfaces in such a way that a packet sent to an anycast address is delivered to a member of the set.\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
11. ipv6 tunnelling\par
\cf3\highlight1\f1\fs24 IPv6 Tunneling is\~\cf2\highlight0 a mechanism for encapsulating IPv4 and IPv6 packets inside IPv6 packets\cf3\highlight1 . It is used to form a virtual point-to-point link between two IPv6 nodes. IPv6 Tunnels are stateless and have no knowledge of the configuration or even existence of the remote tunnel endpoint.\cf0\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
\f6\fs36\'b7\f0  Practical\par
\fs32 1. configure ipv6 address manually and test with ping\par
yes\par
2. IPv6 address automatically\par
yes\par
3. ping utility\par
yes\par
4. ipconfig\par
yes\par
5. tracert / traceroute\par
yes\par
6. dhcpv6\par
yes\par
DFS\par
1. what is DFS? And purpose of DFS\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 The\~Distributed File System (DFS) functions\~\highlight0 provide the ability to logically group shares on multiple servers and to transparently link shares into a single hierarchical namespace\highlight1 . DFS organizes shared resources on a network in a treelike structure.\highlight0\par
\f0\fs32 2. Define DFS namespace and DFS replication\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\cf3\highlight1\f1\fs24 DFS Namespaces and DFS Replication are\~\cf2\highlight0 role services in the File and Storage Services role\cf3\highlight1 . DFS Namespaces Enables you to group shared folders that are located on different servers into one or more logically structured namespaces. Each namespace appears to users as a single shared folder with a series of subfolders.\cf0\highlight0\f0\fs32\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 3. what is folder target?\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 A folder target is\~\highlight0 the Universal Naming Convention (UNC) path of a shared folder or another namespace that is associated with a folder in a namespace\highlight1 . Adding multiple folder targets increases the availability of the folder in the namespace.\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
\f6\fs36\'b7\f0  Practical\fs32\par
1. install DFS namespace and replication\par
yes\par
2. configure common namespace\par
yes\par
3. configure replication and check\par
yes\par
4. configure branch cache\par
yes\par
\fs36 Advance Network\fs32\par
1. what is SDN?\par
\highlight1\f1\fs24 Software-Defined Networking (SDN) is an approach to networking that uses software-based controllers or application programming interfaces (APIs) to communicate with underlying hardware infrastructure and direct traffic on a network.\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
2. what is SCVMM?\par
\cf4\highlight1\f1\fs24 System Center Virtual Machine Manager, also known as System Center VMM or simply SCVMM, is a management tool developed by Microsoft\~\cf2\highlight0 to efficiently manage virtualized environments, particularly as a company's virtual machine and services deployment size increases\cf4\highlight1 .\cf0\highlight0\f0\fs32\par
\fs22\par
}
 